# Social-Networking-Analysis-Final-Project-The-Marvel-Universe-Social-Network

In the mid 2017s, the Marvel Cinematic universe (MCU) topped a 12-billion-dollar milestone in box office revenues6 and recently released its trailer for Avengers Endgame which garnered 48.7 million views on YouTube7 in a day of release. It is a passion for many comic book fans and a weekend’s entertainment for the general public. Our final project is motivated by the inner geek to explore the universe of the marvel heroes and quantify our pre-existing notions about the universe.

Our research question was motivated from our interests and we wanted to analyze the role and influence of each hero in the network and how heroes drive strategic decision making for the studio. Marvel Universe has little over 6,400 heroes (nodes) in the comic world and close to 150 characters in the cinematic universe. This in turns creates a dense network of heroes and there are complexities added to understand the influence of each hero. To begin our analysis, we started with the assumption: heroes have a connection between each other if they appear in the same comic book or same movie. Our first step was to take a look at the properties and characteristics of the marvel network by calculating some network dimensions. After the initial analysis, we created network visualization to analyze the ties of the famous Marvel heroes’ network and for that we used Gephi, a visualization and exploration software. Our analysis also includes multiple regression analysis and exponential random graph modeling (ERGM).
